# Detection of anomalies using the ECG data
An ECG is a graph of voltage over time, it measures the electric change due to the activity of the heart. To get an ECG, we place multiple electrodes at different angle around the heart on the skin of the patient. We then get what is called a 12-lead ECG (12 angles) which is multiple signals. The ECG is then given to the doctor who will have to read it and look for potential anomalies.

The objective of this project is to find out if machine learning methods can be used to detect an anomaly in the ECG and identify the problem. This is a multiclass classification problem. Getting the ECG signals and reading it to find a potential anomaly can take time and the doctor may make a mistake. So the goal of the project is to find out if we could automatise this process and if it is possible to use machine learning in hospitals with this aim. If it is possible, then which model should be used ? How efficient is it ? What kind of work should be done on the data for it to be used efficiently ? Can it identify a problem quickly enough ? To answer these questions we trained multiple models that we learned about during our studies. We make use of pipelines to find the best hyperparameters and then we compare the end results. Wewill also explore the data to visualise the data and find out if there are results that can be explained.

The dataset used can be found here : [ECG of Cardiac Ailments Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/akki2703/ecg-of-cardiac-ailments-dataset)
